

# G - L

Marketing Cloud Personalization common terms from G to L.

![58db4535-a7ff-44ed-9739-901bfb680736]

Note This glossary contains many, but not all, common terms associated with
Marketing Cloud Personalization. If you don't see a term defined here, search
for it using the search box in the left panel.

  * **[global goal](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_global_goal)**  

  * **[identity](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_identity)**  

  * **[implicit data](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_implicit_data)**  

  * **[implied data](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_implied_data)**  

  * **[impression](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_impression)**  

  * **[in-branch](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_in_branch)**  

  * **[in-store](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_in_store)**  

  * **[influenced reporting](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_influenced_reporting)**  

  * **[ingredient](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_ingredient)**  

  * **[instance](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_instance)**  

  * **[interaction](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_interaction)**  

  * **[item](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_item)**  

  * **[item block](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_item_block)**  

  * **[JavaScript beacon](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_javascript_beacon)**  

  * **[lookback](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_g_l.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_lookback)**  

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## global goal

The primary actions you want visitors or users to complete on your website,
SaaS app, or mobile app. Examples include:

  * completed a purchase
  * added to cart
  * downloaded or viewed content
  * completed a form

Global goals aren’t limited to online actions. You can also include offline
goal metrics because global goals are created from segments, which also
consider any offline data you’ve sent to Marketing Cloud Personalization.
After a Global goal has been created, you can view how any campaign is
performing against that goal. Applying global goals to a campaign gives you a
broader view of the effects of a campaign beyond the immediate metrics.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## identity

The aggregation of all of the known information about a customer or an
account. Identity information is gathered through on-line and off-line
implicit and explicit data, and stored within a Unified Customer Profile in
Marketing Cloud Personalization. The same person or account can be identified
in a variety of ways by a variety of different systems. Marketing Cloud
Personalization holds multiple identities in the same profile, matching each
against a hierarchy of identities, then merging these different profiles
together using customizable prioritization logic.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## implicit data

Information that Marketing Cloud Personalization collects while a visitor
moves around a site. Examples include:

  * pages viewed
  * time spent on a page

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## implied data

A synonym for contextual data.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## impression

The number of times a campaign was seen. The total can exceed the number of
unique visitors because a visitor can see a campaign more than one time.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## in-branch

See in-store.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## in-store

Refers to kiosks, POS systems, clienteling, and mobile apps that help unify an
in-store experience with a digital experience. Marketing Cloud Personalization
can pass data (including messages, offers, and recommendations) to these
systems to help personalize a customer's in-store or in-branch experience.
Sometimes referred to as in-branch.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## influenced reporting

Available on the Reports Dashboard, which shows the influence of web
recommendations and email campaigns on revenue, orders, visits, AOV, and
conversions.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## ingredient

A core algorithm that drives a recommendation recipe. Analogous to an engine
that determines which items are returned for the recipe. To return the most
effective recommendations for visitors, you can use one or multiple
ingredients in a recipe.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## instance

The Marketing Cloud Personalization server identifier. To find the instance,
navigate to Gears from the main navigation. The beginning of the Gears URL
shows the instance. For example, if the Gears URL is
`https://demo.us-1.everage.com/`, then the instance is `us-1`.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## interaction

A call to or from the Marketing Cloud Personalization to trigger activity,
send data, or retrieve data. Interactions must be used between the beginning
and ending dates of your subscription.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## item

Provides an overview of content views and product purchases for top performing
products, blogs, or articles, as well as product brands, styles, and
categories.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## item block

An element type used to deploy product or content recommendations to any web
page. Rather than designing your own dynamic content and styling the message
yourself, you can insert an Item Block element to easily add a pre-formatted
layout to your message. It’s a container for content - similar to how a
picture frame is a container for a photograph or piece of art.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## JavaScript beacon

A code snippet from Marketing Cloud Personalization that you add to a site.
The beacon places a first-party cookie on each visitor’s browser and sends
data for that visitor back to Interaction Studio. The data sent back includes
pages visited, links clicked, time on the site, number of visits, geolocation,
referral source, as well as other custom data you want collected.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## lookback

The number of days a recipe looks back at a visitor’s history. When deciding
how far you’d like to look back, think about what best supports your product,
content catalog, and business goals. To look at today only, enter a value of
0. Specify up to a maximum number of _n_ days (the maximum allowed in the
Einstein Recipe tool).

