

# Segment Membership Triggers

A segment membership trigger activates when a user joins or leaves a segment
that you select. Marketing Cloud Personalization updates the segments in real
time, so you can use the triggers to immediately respond to specific user
actions. If you select multiple segments, the user must join or leave only one
of the segments to qualify for the campaign.

You can select this trigger type when you create a triggered campaign. For
more information, see [Create a Triggered
Campaign](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_triggered_campaign_create.htm&language=en_US&type=5
"Use a triggered campaign to launch a journey when a specific action or event
occurs. For example, send a promotion to a shopper who spent time viewing a
product but didn’t purchase. You can recommend unread articles or products to
a visitor who has spent more than 5 minutes reading about a topic. You can
remind new users to complete onboarding steps, or alert sales reps when target
prospects spend a certain amount of time on your site. When creating a
triggered campaign, you can define when to trigger the campaign, which users
to target, and which experiences to deliver.").

## Setup Requirements

Before you create a campaign with a segment membership trigger, build the
Marketing Cloud Personalization segments that you need for triggers, campaign
targeting rules, or experience rules. When you create or edit a segment, it
can take up to 24 hours to calculate historical data. To ensure that the right
audience sees the campaign, create the segment at least 24 hours before you
publish. If the segment only references historical behavior or user
attributes, Personalization can add or remove many users at the same time.

## Configuration Options

When you add a segment membership trigger to a campaign, you can add the
segment name and set campaign frequency limits.

#### See Also

  * [Create a Segment](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_segment_create.htm&language=en_US&type=5 "A segment is a real-time grouping of users, or accounts, based on criteria you define using a set of segment categories and rules.")
  * [Create a Triggered Campaign](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_triggered_campaign_create.htm&language=en_US&type=5 "Use a triggered campaign to launch a journey when a specific action or event occurs. For example, send a promotion to a shopper who spent time viewing a product but didn’t purchase. You can recommend unread articles or products to a visitor who has spent more than 5 minutes reading about a topic. You can remind new users to complete onboarding steps, or alert sales reps when target prospects spend a certain amount of time on your site. When creating a triggered campaign, you can define when to trigger the campaign, which users to target, and which experiences to deliver.")
  * [Trigger Frequency](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_triggered_campaign_trigger_frequency.htm&language=en_US&type=5 "Frequency limits apply to the number of triggers that Marketing Cloud Personalization sends for a user profile for a specified time period.")

