

# Navigate Personalization

Locate what you need in the Marketing Cloud Personalization user interface.

## Design and Layout

The main navigation pane is on the left. Submenus appear when you hover over
or click a main navigation item (like **Reports**). The main page changes as
you select items from the submenu.

![64993473-0302-4a84-a013-374d06c72f6f]

## Channels and Campaigns

The Channels & Campaigns section organizes the different touch points where
you can interact and communicate with visitors and customers into Web, Server-
Side, Mobile, Email Email, and Third Party. You can access campaigns and
campaign-related resources by hovering over or clicking a specific channel in
the left-hand navigation menu.

![13160ba1-010d-4a20-834c-9538c93bf2fe]

## Audiences

You can access user and account segments in the Audiences section of the left-
navigation menu. User Segments shows you existing segments and gives the
option create new ones. Details about the segment are listed below the segment
list. All Users shows you a list of all visitors to your site, including
active visitors indicated by.

![97eee26f-e8a1-45b6-b99a-4461139c80a1]

## Dataset Selector

You can switch to a different dataset by using the selector in the gray bar at
the top of the application, just to the right of the Interaction Studio logo.
Many customers have only one dataset, but if you personalize multiple digital
properties, you likely have to change datasets.

![c24fe5ae-5da1-4644-aa92-3937a1706994]

## Date Picker

The date picker offers several standard date ranges: past day (beginning at
midnight UTC), past week, past month, or past quarter. You can also select a
custom range by dragging your mouse over the time period or using the arrows
at the top to navigate to a start and end date. If you select **Custom Range**
, click **APPLY** to run the query and see the changes.

![cfe68d92-0fca-432a-b964-479eec89a3e0]

## Campaign Exports

You can export campaign statistics to a CSV file right from the Campaigns list
screen. Select the channel, select a campaign, and then click the download
icon (![af8b1912-a483-4219-847f-4188d6fe1002]) to automatically download the
file.

![0eac9f58-9046-4e8a-bc59-74a9f3ef8045]

## Catalog

You can quickly access your catalog content using the Catalog selection in the
left navigation pane. This option also provides access to subsets of the
catalog like brands, authors, item classes, or content classes.

![7ad8d064-f271-4024-b0c9-c57e841387d1]

## Breadcrumbs

See where you are, or move up a level or two quickly, by using the breadcrumb
navigation at the top of the application window.

![d4dc4697-3e11-4fd1-9e2b-f49969cd71f0]

