

# Demand Generation - Open-Time Email Use Cases

Collect high-quality sales leads with personalization use cases that other
customers have used in open-time email campaigns.

Personalization Open-Time Email delivers personalized product recommendations
each time a recipient opens an email. It uses your existing email campaigns
and sends notifications through your current Email Service Provider (ESP). You
send email campaigns using the same tools you currently use. To enable
messages to be personalized at open time, you add HTML generated by the Open-
Time email tool.

Using Open-Time Email helps you solve the challenge of personalizing all types
of email at scale, including:

  * one-to-all broad-based commercial calendar campaigns
  * one-to-many targeted segment-specific communications
  * one-to-one automated emails based on high value subscriber events or actions

Assume you've captured the email address of a website visitor and they’ve
qualified for your email campaign stream. You're now able to include up to the
moment, relevant cross channel content within your emails rendered at time of
open. Content populates each time a subscriber opens an email. You ensure that
each individual receives the most up-to-the-moment, relevant content,
regardless of where they are in their customer journey.

To personalize your website to increase the conversion rate at each step along
the path, consider the customer lifecycle with the following six stages.
Determine the qualification criteria for each stage of the funnel and what you
want customers to do to advance to the next stage. Then layer in real-time
personalization that makes it easier for website visitors to continue the
journey.

![25ca0952-08da-4b38-83db-7d8f714ddfa3]

To learn how to deliver real-time, personalized content in your email
campaigns, click Acquisition or Customer Success for one of the following
campaign types.

Research | Discover | Validate | Campaign Type | Onboard | Inform | Expand  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Inspire and ensure easy exploration of relevant products and content | Encourage active product evaluation. Recognize signs of defection |  | Reduce time to value with the product or service. | Increase adoption throughout the customer lifecycle. | Nurture and grow LTV while reducing attrition.  
No Email Address Available | [Acquisition](https://org62.my.salesforce.com/sfc/p/#000000000062/a/3y000001pttd/LMDpa3uw48Gd94eU.pY87yJqw6WcspIEyyNAujEW.Bo) | 1:All Recurring | [Customer Success](https://org62.my.salesforce.com/sfc/p/#000000000062/a/3y000001ptu5/r8Zg4dtc0FB4pGrS7Z3Sjxf2VoSTr9ZUx3b4jNym1lM)  
[Acquisition](https://org62.my.salesforce.com/sfc/p/#000000000062/a/3y000001pttw/651EOdARioTVnZe.HfyT8I.djOq3XvoP6gNXufADyUc) | 1:Many Ad Hoc | [Customer Success](https://org62.my.salesforce.com/sfc/p/#000000000062/a/3y000001pttx/rGsF_5TS3AozVDEiQX5NgePuEsodjwqXiBrgPB73BBo)  
[Acquisition](https://org62.my.salesforce.com/sfc/p/#000000000062/a/3y000001ptty/NkP9X9h5XlofItsn8TnJ.o_BphdFaDLhP6yn_rwDyHE) | 1:1 Automated | [Customer Success](https://org62.my.salesforce.com/sfc/p/#000000000062/a/3y000001ptu1/TGGNvAe6JfEl5.wz8yVIq5rBOx2hge3OwBItraH._us)  
  
#### See Also

  * [Consider Personalization Use Cases](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_use_case_about.htm&language=en_US&type=5 "Browse the Use Case Library to look for ideas and inspiration for your own personalization solutions. The use cases represent popular example. But they’re not templates, nor do they encompass the full range of possible use cases for your business. Before you commit to implementing one or more personalization use cases, determine whether the use case aligns with your business goals, priorities, and other suitability criteria.")

