

# Surveys

Surveys are deployed in web campaigns. Use data collected from a survey to
create user segments, enhance personalization experiences, or perform A/B
tests to validate business impact.

### Required Editions

Available in: Premium Edition  
---  
  
## How Surveys Are Used

Surveys are deployed in web campaigns, so you have access to all the targeting
rules and testing capabilities in Personalization. You can use survey data to
create user segments, enhance personalization experiences, perform A/B tests
to validate business impact, and analyze feedback results. You can also clone
a survey or build a survey using the JSON survey editor for developers. For
more information, see the [surveyJS documentation](https://surveyjs.io/form-
library/documentation/overview).

![f06e93d7-5b1d-4cbf-9696-a49af708ef04]

Note If you don’t see the Surveys menu in Personalization and your account was
provisioned before April 7, 2021, request a Gears refresh for your account
from support. If you’re unsure whether a Gears refresh has already occurred
for your account, ask your account admin who can see the Gears list on your
account.

## Survey Editor

You can create a survey using the survey editor. There’s also a JSON survey
editor for developers. For more information on how to use the JSON editor or
make technical customizations to the survey editor, see the [surveyJS
documentation](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Library).

## Survey Questions and Attributes

When you create a survey question, Personalization adds a survey attribute to
the dataset. The number of survey attributes is limited per dataset. For more
information, see [Personalization
Limits](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_limits.htm&language=en_US&type=5
"Learn about the limits and capabilities in Marketing Cloud
Personalization.").

## Surveys in Web Campaigns

After you create a survey, you can add it to a web campaign using a template
created by your developer. Your developer can also add styles to the survey
using the same techniques for other campaign development.

