

# Resources for Getting Started With Personalization

If you’re new to Marketing Cloud Personalization, welcome! We’re excited to
have you join us on the journey to personalization greatness, and we have lots
of great content to start you off on the right path.

## eCampus

Salesforce offers self-guided learning through eCampus, an online learning
portal. [Sign up
now](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSctQpKILvj3_0f5C3cvTBvxKz7rkPFEDq8Ev0BAWwNBBCaDIg/viewform)
to receive login details within one business day. To learn more, see [eCampus
Online Learning for
Personalization](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_ecampus.htm&language=en_US&type=5
"Marketing Cloud Personalization offers self-guided onboarding and enablement
through eCampus, an online learning portal. eCampus provides an extensive
collection of courses and distinct learning paths for business users and
developers.").

## Salesforce Help

The Personalization Help topics offer support content in case something isn’t
clear in the application, or you’re running into issues. It’s also a great
resource for marketers to think about how to get the most from
Personalization.

## Developer Docs

We also have a content site dedicated to the developers: [Marketing Cloud
Personalization Developer
Documentation](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/marketing/personalization/overview)
within your organization who are responsible for maintaining the application
and updating the site map to maximize your personalization potential. There’s
also a series of developer-focused content in
([eCampus](https://ecampus.evergage.com/learners/sign_in)), so be sure to sign
up your developers eCampus account.

## Trailblazer Community

To interact with MC Personalization colleagues and users, join our [MC
Personalization Trailblazer
Community](https://trailhead.salesforce.com/trailblazer-
community/groups/0F93A000000HYj5SAG?tab=members&sort=LAST_MODIFIED_DATE_DESC).

## Videos

And there’s more! We have online learning content in a dedicated
[Personalization YouTube
playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLFNbZmUNjID4CXU7jsSddDKk_azh7WGU8).
You can find bite-size content about all of the key features of the
application. Keep checking back because we add new content all the time.

## Onboarding Seminars

We don’t expect you to go it alone when it comes to getting to know
Personalization, although the digital first approach means you can learn at
your own pace. We have a series of onboarding webinars and expert coaching
sessions you can sign up for. And, as a premier support customer, you can
request a 1:1 session with a Personalization Success Guide to review the
content and ask questions that are specific to your organization. The webinars
provide more details, so sign up for [Getting Started - Personalization -
Prepare for
Implementation](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=000392286&language=en_US&type=1)
now!

## Personalization Partner

And the most important thing of all—engage with a certified Personalization
partner, or CSG Services for your implementation. Your account executive can
provide you with a list if you don’t have a certified Personalization partner.
Plan your implementation with a certified Personalization partner of CSG
Services for your unique business requirements to ensure a smooth transition
after you have a solid implementation foundation in place.

