

# Requirements for Creating Triggered Campaigns

To create a triggered campaign, you must configure components in Contact
Builder, Journey Builder, and Personalization.

Setup Step | Description  
---|---  
Create a data extension | Triggered campaigns are associated with Journey Builder Entry Events. In Contact Builder, before activating a journey, update the data extension to include fields for any options you added in the triggered template for each campaign experience. Data extension changes made after journey activation aren’t reflected in journey data. If you create a new version of a journey and replace the journey entry event, you must reconfigure the triggered campaign for the new journey entry event.For more information, see [Create a Data Extension in Contact Builder](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_cab_create_a_new_data_extension.htm&language=en_US&type=5) and [Admit Contacts via API](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_jb_admit_contacts_via_api.htm&language=en_US&type=5).  
Create a journey API event | In Journey Builder, create an API event as the journey’s entry source using the data extension that you created in Contact Builder. See [API Event Entry Source Use Case](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_jb_api_entry_source_use_case_1.htm&language=en_US&type=5).  
Create a journey | In Journey Builder, build and launch the journey that you want to use with the campaign. See [Create a Multi-Step Journey in Journey Builder](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_jb_create_multistep_journey.htm&language=en_US&type=5).  
Set the contact entry mode for the journey | In Journey Builder, set an entry mode for the journey. See [Choose a Contact Entry Mode](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_jb_choose_a_contact_entry_mode.htm&language=en_US&type=5).  
Review and complete trigger requirements | Some triggers need additional components, such as segments, or have catalog setup requirements, such as numeric inventory count. To review the setup requirements for the different triggers, see [User Triggers](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_triggered_campaign_trigger_types_user.htm&language=en_US&type=5 "A user trigger activates a campaign based on user behavior.") and [Catalog Triggers](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_triggered_campaign_trigger_types_catalog.htm&language=en_US&type=5 "A catalog trigger activates a campaign based on updates or changes to item data in your catalog. The trigger activates after a change in your catalog, but what drives the trigger is the amount of time the user views an item before the catalog change occurs.").  
Define triggered templates | Before you can create a triggered campaign, you must have a triggered template in your dataset. Personalization-triggered templates define the data you pass to Journey Builder and provide configuration options for each campaign experience, such as what recipe to show to the qualified user. If you need options other than the options included in the default triggered template, have your developer create any additional templates. For more information, see [Configure a Triggered Campaign Template](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_triggered_campaign_save_global_template_dataset.htm&language=en_US&type=5 "A triggered template defines the data to pass to Journey Builder. You can modify it for each campaign experience, such as which recipe to show to the qualified user. To create a triggered campaign, you must have a triggered template in your dataset. Marketing Cloud Personalization includes a standard template that you can add fields to. If you need options other than what’s included in the default template, have your developer create a template.").   
Create the triggered campaign | Create the triggered campaign and add the trigger type, any delays, campaign targeting rules, and a template and journey for each campaign experience. For more information, see [Create a Triggered Campaign](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_triggered_campaign_create.htm&language=en_US&type=5 "Use a triggered campaign to launch a journey when a specific action or event occurs. For example, send a promotion to a shopper who spent time viewing a product but didn’t purchase. You can recommend unread articles or products to a visitor who has spent more than 5 minutes reading about a topic. You can remind new users to complete onboarding steps, or alert sales reps when target prospects spend a certain amount of time on your site. When creating a triggered campaign, you can define when to trigger the campaign, which users to target, and which experiences to deliver.").

