

# Personalization Data Integration Considerations

Before integrating Marketing Cloud Personalization with Data Cloud, consider
each data component so you can maximize the strengths of both sides of the
integration solution. Identify which data to feed into which system so you can
architect your implementation appropriately.

## User Data

User Identity Data

Everything begins with user identity. Understanding who each visitor is and
what motivates them is critical to connecting on a one-to-one basis.
Personalization profiles update in real time as actions occur, and those
updates then feed into Data Cloud. Load identity data into both
Personalization and Data Cloud so that the data is available for lookup and
merge in both platforms.

  * Profile data is shared between Personalization and Data Cloud.
  * Profiles are updated based on changes to shared attributes.
  * The profile ID is a built-in, common identifier available across both Personalization and Data Cloud. The profile ID is:
    * Similar to the subscriber ID in Marketing Cloud Messaging and Journeys.
    * Generated by Personalization in real time for each new anonymous and named user profile.

User Profile Data

There are three groups of user profile data to consider loading into both
Personalization and Data Cloud:

  * User attribute data
  * In-store transaction data
  * Offline engagement data

User Attribute Data

  * Personalization has a limit of 100 attributes per dataset, so plan to load only those attributes necessary for real-time personalization in Personalization. 
  * Data Cloud doesn’t have an attribute limit. You can load the full set of attributes into Data Cloud to have them available in your Data Cloud data lake. 
  * User data loaded from Data Cloud into Personalization appears as a segment or as a user attribute.

Examples of calculated insight data from Data Cloud that you can bring into
Personalization, and then use as attributes, include:

  * CRM data, such as the number of open cases or opportunities
  * Loyalty Cloud Score
  * Expressions used to derive sliding window calculations, such as:
    * Days until renewal
    * Points until next reward
    * Number of open opportunities or cases 
    * Engagement scores from Einstein Messaging and Journeys

In-Store Transaction Data, Offline Engagement Data

Artificial intelligence is only as good as the data that feeds it. Adding in-
store transaction data and offline engagement data into Personalization
increases the amount of raw data available. Raw data informs Personalization’s
Einstein Recipes and the Einstein Decisions machine learning algorithms so
that they can better decide which information to return to users.

  * Load in-store transaction data and offline engagement data into both Personalization and Data Cloud. 
  * Personalization requires transaction and engagement data to inform Einstein Recipes and Einstein Decisions machine learning algorithms.

## Channel-Specific Data

Web and Mobile Tracking Data

Use the Marketing Cloud Personalization module of the Salesforce Interactions
SDK and Mobile SDK to collect behavioral data and drive real-time interaction.
The Personalization Connector for Data Cloud passes the following information
to Data Cloud:

  * Identities
    * Profile ID
    * Other identity information included in the event payload
    * Examples: Product View, Add to Cart, Purchase
  * Web actions from the event call
    * Examples: Product View, Add to Cart, Purchase

![f2c01212-a9b8-4281-ad86-96e916295837]

Note The Personalization Connector doesn’t currently share mobile actions,
time spent, and detailed catalog behavior data with Data Cloud.

Campaign Engagement Data

Load Marketing Cloud email campaign engagement data, including sends, opens,
and clicks, directly into both Personalization and Data Cloud.

  * Personalization stores email campaign engagement data as a campaign object. 
  * You can also use the campaign object to associate web and mobile behavior to the email campaign and then target continued messaging. For example, consider User A who received your holiday email campaign, but didn’t open the message. Personalization tracks that behavior so when User A lands on your site, you can personalize the experience to reflect User A’s lack of engagement with the holiday campaign.
  * Load individual campaign interaction data directly into Personalization using the integration through Automation Studio, and into Data Cloud using the Marketing Cloud Email starter bundle. 
  * Load aggregate email engagement data, such as members of a segment called “Highly Engaged Email Subscriber,” into Personalization using a Data Cloud Calculated Insight expression. Store aggregate email engagement data as a Personalization user attribute so you can use the data for targeting.

MS and Push Engagement Data

  * Load aggregate SMS and push engagement data, such as opens in the past 30 days, into Personalization using Data Cloud Calculated Insights. 
  * Store SMS and push engagement data as a user attribute in Personalization.
  * You can use SMS and push engagement data to review total message saturation across all channels. Use Data Cloud to aggregate email, SMS, and push engagement data across those channels. Share the number of messages received across all channels to Personalization as an attribute.

