

# Spring '23 Features in Marketing Cloud Personalization

The following functionality was released in Spring '23.

## Real-Time Sales and Service Data for Personalization

Sales and Service Cloud data is available and updated in real time, right in
the Personalization platform. Use the most up-to-date customer interaction and
account data. React in real time with individually relevant product and
content recommendations. For more information, see [Real-Time Sales and
Service Data for
Personalization](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_rn_2023_spring_personalization_sales_service_data.htm&language=en_US&type=5)
and [Automate Data Sent for Personalization Using
Flows](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_salesforce_sales_service_cloud_mgd_pkg_automate_data_w_flows.htm&language=en_US&type=5
"Automatically send data that is specific to a Named Individual Profile from
Sales or Service Cloud to Personalization.").

## Personalization Insights for Sales and Service

Access individual customer insights from Salesforce’s Personalization solution
within Sales and Service Cloud, in real time. Drive deeper relationships by
employing real-time insights about each of your Sales and Service customers.
Give sales and service agents visibility into each customer’s interests,
website activity, purchase history, and more. Drive upsells by equipping your
team to have the right conversations. For more information, see
[Personalization Insights for Sales and
Service](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_rn_2023_spring_personalization_sales_service_insights.htm&language=en_US&type=5)
and [Add the Affinities Component to a Contacts or Leads
Page](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_salesforce_sales_service_cloud_mgd_pkg_affinities_component_add.htm&language=en_US&type=5
"Add the Affinities component to view affinity data from Marketing Cloud
Personalization for a lead or contact.").

## Low Inventory Trigger for Triggered Campaigns

Use the Product Low Inventory trigger to re-engage with your customers by
notifying them when a product they were interested in is going out of stock
soon. For more information, see [Product Low Inventory Trigger for Triggered
Campaigns](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_rn_2023_spring_personalization_triggers.htm&language=en_US&type=5)
and [Product Low Inventory
Trigger](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_triggered_campaign_trigger_product_low_inventory.htm&language=en_US&type=5
"Use this trigger to reach customers when a product they spent time viewing
but didn’t purchase has a low inventory. The user must have viewed the product
for a minimum amount of time within a specified number of days. Marketing
Cloud Personalization uses the minimum view time to filter out customers that
look at a product only for 1 second before they navigate away. The trigger
checks every hour for qualifying products that have an inventory count below
the configured threshold.").

## System Status Moved to trust.salesforce.com

The up-time status for Marketing Cloud Personalization is now available on
trust.salesforce.com. As of March 31, 2023, the status.evergage.com site is
unavailable. Users who subscribed to status updates from the Evergage site no
longer receive notifications. For more information, see [System Status Moved
to
trust.salesforce.com](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_rn_2023_spring_personalization_system_status.htm&language=en_US&type=5)
and [View Up-Time
Status](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_uptime_status.htm&language=en_US&type=5).

## Enhanced Error Messages for Data Sharing with Salesforce CRM Integration

To help you diagnose issues encountered during data sharing jobs, we now
provide more detailed error message information, including the ability to
click an error message to view details, if available.

![1ab8f6f3-7633-4609-bb60-d43ac68f15d4]

Note This change surfaces integration errors that were previously not visible.
An increased number of error messages can be due to increased visibility
rather than a change in the way your integration works.

For more information, see [Troubleshoot Personalization Integration with
Salesforce
CRM](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_salesforce_crm_data_synchronization_troubleshoot.htm&language=en_US&type=5
"Troubleshoot common issues with the integration between Marketing Cloud
Personalization and Salesforce CRM. Changes to any Salesforce CRM security
settings—at the OAuth App level, the Salesforce User level, or the Field
Security level—can disrupt the integration.").

## Enhanced Performance for User ETL and Data Cloud Activation ETL

ETL processing speeds are improved for User ETL and CDP Activation ETL
ingests. Improvements are automatically available, with no customer action
required. The file naming conventions and the schema remain unchanged. To
expedite processing, for User ETL files only, the Feeds Dashboard no longer
allows manual testing for User ETL before committing files during on-demand
uploads. Previously, the Dashboard showed a preview of the old attribute
alongside the new attribute for each user included in the file. Users can
still manually commit User ETL uploads. For more information, see [Upload an
ETL File
Manually](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_etl_file_upload.htm&language=en_US&type=5
"ETL data feeds are commonly configured to automatically upload the ETL files
using the SFTP site. However, you can upload files manually if, for example,
you want to ingest data that doesn’t get updated frequently, or if you want to
confirm the .CSV file format without committing changes.").

## Retirement of Interaction Studio (Legacy)

Interaction Studio (Legacy), also known as Thunderhead Interaction Studio, was
retired on March 1, 2023. It was a standalone product that was accessible
through Marketing Cloud. The Interaction Studio (Legacy) documentation has
been removed from Salesforce Help. For more information, see [Retirement of
Interaction Studio
(Legacy).](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_rn_2023_spring_personalization_legacy.htm&language=en_US&type=5)

## Documentation

  * [Marketing Cloud Personalization Help Exclusively on Salesforce Help](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_rn_2023_spring_personalization_help.htm&language=en_US&type=5)

Marketing Cloud Personalization help documentation, previously hosted on
doc.evergage.com, is now exclusively available in Salesforce Help. The
doc.evergage.com site is no longer accessible.

  * [Developer Docs for Marketing Cloud Personalization Exclusively on Salesforce Developer Docs Site](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_rn_2023_spring_personalization_dev_docs.htm&language=en_US&type=5)

Marketing Cloud Personalization's developer documentation, previously hosted
on developer.evergage.com, is now exclusively available on the
developer.salesforce.com/docs/ site. The developer.evergage.com site is no
longer accessible.

  * [Help for Interaction Studio (Classic)](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_rn_2023_spring_personalization_classic.htm&language=en_US&type=5)

The help documentation for Interaction Studio (Classic), previously hosted on
doc.evergage.com, is now published as a PDF file.

