

# Summer '23 Features in Marketing Cloud Personalization

The following functionality was released in Summer '23.

## Updated Personalization Limits

The Personalization Limits article has been updated to include additional
limits. For more information, see [Personalization
Limits](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_limits.htm&language=en_US&type=5
"Learn about the limits and capabilities in Marketing Cloud
Personalization.").

## View Customer Events in Sales and Service Cloud

A customerâ€™s digital footprint contains valuable information about their
habits, needs, and desires. You can now view customer events and activities in
real time directly on a Sales or Service contacts or leads page. Better
understand customer behaviors and trigger points to drive conversations,
conversions, and commitment to your brand. For more information, see [Tailor
Recommendations and Opportunities by Viewing Customer Activity in Sales and
Service
Cloud](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_rn_2023_summer_personalization_event_stream_component.htm&language=en_US&type=5)
and [Add the Customer Event Stream Component to a Contacts or Leads
Page](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_salesforce_sales_service_cloud_mgd_pkg_event_stream_add.htm&language=en_US&type=5
"Watch your customers interact with your business in real-time as well as view
historical activities right on a Contacts or Leads page with the event stream
component of the Personalization managed package. Events are based on the data
provided by the Interactions SDK or Sitemap. For custom events, you can view
event name, URL \(if applicable\), timestamp, and channel.").

## Process up to 100 Records per Apex Transaction with Real-Time Sales and
Service Data

Sales and Service Cloud data is available and updated in real time, right in
the Personalization platform via the Personalization data action in Flow
Automation. Bulk updates of Salesforce records with asynchronous Apex
processing can now process up to 100 records, up from the previous limit of
25. You can also leverage bulk updates from external systems to Salesforce
immediately for Personalization. For more information, see [Process More
Record Changes per Apex Transaction with Real-Time Sales and Service Data for
Personalization](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_rn_2023_summer_personalization_data_action_enhancement.htm&language=en_US&type=5)
and [Automate Data Sent for Personalization Using
Flows](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_salesforce_sales_service_cloud_mgd_pkg_automate_data_w_flows.htm&language=en_US&type=5
"Automatically send data that is specific to a Named Individual Profile from
Sales or Service Cloud to Personalization.").

