

# Summer '22 Features in Interaction Studio

The following functionality was released in Summer '22.

## Triggered Campaigns

Start your Marketing Cloud Journeys based on Real-Time behavioral triggers.
Triggered Campaigns combine the best of real-time personalization, with the
shining star of planned outbound communication in Journey Builder. With
Triggered Campaigns, you can use nine configurable, real-time, behavioral
triggers to start Marketing Cloud Journeys, such as cart or browse
abandonment, product price reduction, and product back-in-stock. You can send
user information and recommendations from Interaction Studio to Journey
Builder Entry Events, and then use that data for personalization and decision
splits. You can run a/b tests and analyze the performance of your triggered
campaigns with built-in reports and dashboards.

Where: This update is available for all MC integrated accounts using Multiple
Identity system.

How: New **Triggered** menu item under the **Channels & Campaigns** section of
the main menu.

## Salesforce Chatbot Template

The latest addition to our global template repository. The new Salesforce
chatbot global template allows customers to leverage the power of Interaction
Studio campaigns to help determine the following:

  * Who should qualify to see the chatbot (campaign/experience targeting rules)
  * When the chatbot should appear based on factors including time on page, inactivity, and scroll depth

The template will be automatically available to all customers on the campaigns
and templates system. To access it simply, navigate to the global templates
list and make a copy of it like you would any other global template. The
global template is configured to work alongside SF's chatbot by default, but
can be customized to call a different chatbot in a similar manner.

Where: This update applies to the MC Personalization Web templates system.

How: New global template available to all customers.

##  Catalog Object Locale ETL

Interaction Studio supports localization of catalog items, which allows unique
data for specific fields to be stored based on the language and country codes.
The locale-specific data can then be leveraged on site (provided you are
tracking users' locale information on your website using the sitemap) to
display catalog object information with the locale-specific data for the
catalog item. The Catalog Object Locale ETL allows for the ingestion of
locale-specific catalog object information for Articles, Blogs, Categories,
and any user-created catalog object. Promotions do not support localized
attributes. The Catalog Object Locale ETL should be used in conjunction with a
Catalog Object ETL or another method of populating catalog object items in the
catalog.

Where: This update applies to the MC Personalization ETL System.

How: New ETL option available to all customers.

