

# Prerequisites for Promotions

To create and use promotions, review and complete these setup steps.

Setup Step | Description  
---|---  
Enable Promotions. | Select **Settings** | **Catalog and Profile Objects** | **Promotion**. Turn on **Enabled** , and click **Save**. Promotions is now listed in the Catalog section of the main navigation.   
Create custom promotion attributes. | A promotion attribute determines which promotions appear in a campaign. When creating a promotion, promotion attributes are optional, but they're recommended. See [Create a Custom Promotion Attribute](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_promotion_attributes.htm&language=en_US&type=5 "Use custom attributes to determine which promotions appear in a campaign. Similar to other catalog item types, custom attributes can also be returned as the output of a decision. When creating a promotion, adding a custom attribute is optional, but it’s recommended.").  
Create related catalog objects. | Personalization uses related catalog objects to track and measure customer affinities across item types in your catalog. Related catalog objects are optional. However, related catalog objects are useful in promotions for providing more accurate recommendations. For more information, see [Create a Related Catalog Object for a Promotion](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_promotion_related_catalog_object.htm&language=en_US&type=5 "Use related catalog objects to track and measure customer affinities across item types in your catalog. Related catalog objects provide Einstein Decisions with data about the promotion to improve the quality of its decisioning. Related catalog objects are optional in promotions, but they’re recommended for providing more accurate recommendations.").  
Consider a rule-based decisioning and machine learning strategy. | In addition to products and content, the Personalization Catalog can be used to prioritize decisions around the next best action for each individual engaging with your company. With rule-based decisioning and machine learning, you can target customers in multiple channels. You can include promotions that resonate with them when they’re ready to act. Before adding promotions to campaigns, consider creating a comprehensive promotions strategy to improve personalization of next best offer recommendations across channels. The Einstein Decisions model trains with a variety of different data, including related catalog object data. For more information, see [Einstein Decisions](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_einstein_decision.htm&language=en_US&type=5 "When a user views a promotion on your website, Marketing Cloud Personalization captures the user's context—including whether they’re a returning visitor, the device they’re using, and other information that provides insight into that user. Einstein Decisions, Personalization’s machine learning approach for next-best-offer decisioning, uses that context to predict the value of showing a specific offer to a particular user.").

