

# M - R

Marketing Cloud Personalization common terms from M to R.

![68a99a8a-180f-41bd-9084-94de6fc742bd]

Note This glossary contains many, but not all, common terms associated with
Marketing Cloud Personalization. If you don't see a term defined here, search
for it using the search box in the left panel.

  * **[Mobile SDK](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_mobile_sdk)**  

  * **[monthly unique visitors](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_monthly_unique_visitors)**  

  * **[most recently published ingredient](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_most_recently_published_ingredient)**  

  * **[named individual profile](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_named_individual_profile)**  

  * **[named profiles](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_named_profile)**  

  * **[order](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_order)**  

  * **[outbound orchestration trigger](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_outbound_orchestration_trigger)**  

  * **[outlier filtering](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_outlier_filtering)**  

  * **[path](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_path)**  

  * **[Paths Report](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_paths_report)**  

  * **[personalization](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_personalization)**  

  * **[real time](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_real_time)**  

  * **[real-time interaction management (RTIM)](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_real_time_interaction_management)**  

  * **[recent visitors](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_recent_visitor)**  

  * **[recommendation](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_recommendation)**  

  * **[recommendation campaign](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_recommendation_campaign)**  

  * **[referring source](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_referring_source)**  

  * **[relevancy retained](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_relevancy_retained)**  

  * **[results filter](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_results_filter)**  

  * **[revenue](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_revenue)**  

  * **[revenue per user](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_revenue_per_user)**  

  * **[rule](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_glossary_defs_m_r.htm&language=en_US&type=5#mc_pers_glossary_rule)**  

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## Mobile SDK

Use the Marketing Cloud Personalization Mobile SDKs to track the behaviors and
actions of iOS and Android mobile app users. Use the Marketing Cloud
Personalization Mobile SDKs to deliver personalized experiences inside the app
or on another channel in real time. Create and deploy one-off push
notifications triggered by a visitor’s actions or behavior.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## monthly unique visitors

The monthly total number of unique visitors, which consists of:

  * Web or App SDK visitors
  * Transaction ETL
  * User ETL
  * Profile Object ETL
  * External Email Campaign Event ETL
  * Event API (any that are stitched by identity across two or more of these sources would count as 1 monthly unique visitor)

In general, monthly unique visitors is the total number of unique known and
unknown visitors who visited a website or any other available channel during
the reporting month. Your Marketing Cloud Personalization edition includes a
maximum number of monthly unique visitors. Your limit is calculated as the
average number of monthly unique visitors for the past 12 months of your
contract period. Here’s an example of an annual monthly unique visitor
calculation:

  * Suppose a website or mobile app has two million monthly unique visitors in January, four million in February, and three million in the remaining 10 months of the year.
  * The monthly unique visitor count for the website from January to December is three million and is an average of the monthly unique visitors for the previous 12 months: (2M + 4M + (10 x 3M)) / 12 = 3 million monthly unique visitors

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## most recently published ingredient

An algorithm that uses the published date captured in the catalog. Use this
algorithm to prioritize the most recently published items or content on a
site.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## named individual profile

A known, identified profile created through login events, identification
events, or data ingestion. Named profiles are a cumulative metric equivalent
to the total number of unique known users captured by Marketing Cloud
Personalization across all your channels since the beginning of your contract.
Examples of when a Named Individual Profile is created include:

  * A previously anonymous user logs in for the first time, converting the anonymous profile to a known profile.
  * You upload a database of existing profiles and identifiers.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## named profiles

The monthly total number of named profiles, which consists of:

  * Web or Mobile App SDK visitors (minus anonymous Web and Mobile App SDK users)
  * Transaction ETL
  * User ETL
  * Profile Object ETL
  * External Email Campaign Event ETL
  * Event API (any that are stitched by identity across two or more of these sources would count as 1 MUV)

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## order

The number of orders placed by visitors who saw a campaign experience during
the attribution window. Orders consist of more than just product orders.
Marketing Cloud Personalization considers orders to be a goal completion on
your site. Examples:

  * product purchases
  * content download registrations
  * form submissions
  * newsletter signups
  * other goal completions

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## outbound orchestration trigger

An action, email, or message triggered in another channel, either in real time
or on a delay, as a result of another behavior, message, or action. Examples:

  * A person's website behavior triggers a call center task creation.
  * A visitor’s favorite product is back in stock and triggers a push message.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## outlier filtering

If you’ve configured outliers in **Catalog Setup > Settings**, you can exclude
outliers in Campaign Statistics by switching Outlier Filtering to ON. For
example, suppose a visitor placed an exceptionally large order that far
exceeded the expected deviance from the average order value. To prevent this
order from skewing the statistics for your campaign, exclude orders outside of
the general range you’ve configured. Outlier filtering is retroactive.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## path

Defines which pages on your site visitors enter on arrival, and where they go
next. Use paths to better target your communications and content strategy. For
example, suppose visitors frequently abandon a demo request form and go to any
one of four other pages. Messaging them about the demo on those four pages can
help increase demo sign ups. Also, if no one enters your site on the homepage,
posting a “Getting Started” video on that page is likely not the best
approach.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## Paths Report

A report that enables marketers to gain insight into the flow of visitors as
they navigate through the site. This report also includes bounce rate
information.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## personalization

A type of activation. The premise of personalization is to understand your
visitor’s mindset and intent. Based on that understanding, you create the best
experience for each visitor as soon as they land on your site or open an
email.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## real time

Actions occur in less than 20 milliseconds in Marketing Cloud Personalization.
As site or app visitors, or email recipients, make different choices, or as
their behavior changes, Marketing Cloud Personalization responds instantly and
seamlessly to deliver personalized experiences to each one. This rapid
response is the root of real-time personalization (RTP).

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## real-time interaction management (RTIM)

The ability to capture real-time consumer insights and then use them to bring
true personalization to every interaction with your brand—all in an instant.
With RTIM, marketers coordinate interactions across owned channels for an
optimized, connected consumer experience. Consumers receive the next-best
action or offer at the exact moment that it’s likeliest to inspire action.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## recent visitors

The number of visitors who have been to your site since the beacon was
activated, updated in real time. A green dot indicates a visitor who is using
your site right now.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## recommendation

Algorithmic configuration designed to present products and content to
individual visitors based on their unique preferences.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## recommendation campaign

A type of campaign that shows information to people based on their unique
preferences driven by a set of algorithms. Typically, a recommendations
campaign delivers product and content recommendations.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## referring source

Indicates how people arrived on the site so you can send customized messaging
for each visitor. You can quickly see key statistics about visitors who were
referred from top sources including referral percentage, number of visits, and
revenue. Hover over the graph to see date, time, and revenue detail. Switch to
the list view to see such information as:

  * bounce rate
  * average visit duration
  * average number of pages viewed
  * average and total revenue

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## relevancy retained

Determines how long to include a product or piece of content in
recommendations. This calculation factors in the amount of time set for the
decay age. For example, support the decay age is 48 hours and relevancy
retained is 50%. After 48 hours have passed, the recommendation score (used to
determine which items to return) reduces to half of what it was when the item
was published. If the original score was 1, after 48 hours, the score is 0.5,
and it remains 0.5 from that point forward.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## results filter

You can apply a results filter when looking at Campaign Statistics. There are
several default filters listed in the dropdown, in addition to any global
goals you’ve set. After you’ve selected the filter, the campaign statistics
recalculate to show the performance of the campaign only for the visitors from
the selected filter.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## revenue

The total amount of revenue generated from the people who saw the campaign and
then made a purchase or a download during the selected attribution window. In
reports, the revenue statistic shows daily revenue totals and a summary of the
revenue generating activities happening on your site.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## revenue per user

Total revenue generated divided by the number of visitors who saw the campaign
experience and then made purchases or downloads during the selected
attribution window.

[](https://help.salesforce.com/s?language=en_US)

## rule

Controls how a campaign, experience, or message shows based on certain
criteria.

