

# About Web Campaigns

Campaigns are at the heart of providing personalized website experiences that
resonate with your users. Using a web campaign, you can personalize various
aspects of your website for your users based on their behavior, affinities,
preferences, location, or other qualifying criteria.

## Web Campaigns and Templates

When you create a campaign, you select a template, complete the inputs
available for that template, add qualification criteria rules, and then test
and publish the campaign. The published campaign is visible to users that
qualify based on the testing and targeting logic you include when you create
the campaign. For example, suppose you want to create an infobar promoting
free shipping and returns. You create a web campaign, add the infobar
template, complete the inputs specific to that template, add any qualification
rules, and test and publish the campaign.

## Considerations for Web Campaigns

Before creating a web campaign, consider the following:

  * Goals—Why are you creating the campaign? What do you want to achieve with the campaign? After considering your business goals, develop a hypothesis, or test, to help you determine how to craft a personalization campaign that supports your goals.
  * Audience—Who do you want to target with the campaign?
  * Metrics—How do you measure success?

## Campaign Types

There are two campaign types:

Type | Description  
---|---  
A/B test campaigns | Splits traffic randomly into different groups based on percentages you define. Each group sees a different campaign experience.  
Rule-based test campaigns | Follows the rules you define to determine which experience to show to each user. When users match the rules, they qualify for the campaign experience. For example, using a rule-based test, you can target a segment of users who haven’t been to your site in 30 days and show them experience 1\. Then you can show experience 2 to users who have been to your site in the past 24 hours.  
  
## Web Campaign Experience

A web campaign experience is the interaction an individual user has with a
particular web personalization or activation campaign. You can use experiences
to create different personalization results within the same campaign. For
example, you can create a campaign for first-time users of your site that
shows different copy and images to users from different geographic regions or
different industries. Using one campaign, you can create separate experiences,
each targeting a different subset of your website users. Then you use rules to
control the visibility of each experience.

## Web Campaign and Experience Rules

Rules control the visibility of a web campaign, or a campaign experience, for
specific audiences. There are many combinations of rules you can use,
regardless of the test you use for your campaign.

## Campaign Statistics

Personalization automatically generates a campaign statistics report for each
web campaign. The Campaign Statistics report tracks the performance of your
web campaign in real time and is a great resource for determining optimization
opportunities or new campaign ideas. For more information, see [Campaign
Statistics](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_campaign_statistics.htm&language=en_US&type=5
"Use Campaign Statistics to measure the impact of your campaigns. The
information available on the Campaign Statistics screen helps you analyze
where you can make campaign changes to improve results.") and [Get Statistics
for a
Campaign](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_campaign_statistics_view.htm&language=en_US&type=5
"Monitor and analyze the effectiveness of a campaign. You can apply different
filters to view activity and attribution metrics during a particular time
period. To collect statistics, the campaign must have recorded campaign
impressions.").

#### See Also

  * [Create a Web Campaign](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.mc_pers_web_campaign_create.htm&language=en_US&type=5 "Using a web campaign, you can personalize various aspects of your website for your users based on their behavior, affinities, preferences, location, or other qualifying criteria. You can create web campaigns from templates in your dataset. The templates provide a framework that defines the campaign placement, copy and creative locations, and general campaign design.")
  * [ _Video_ : Create A/B Test and Control Groups](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-hKk5LufJ0E)
  * [ _Video_ : Create Rule-Based Campaigns](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7frznbLswhk)

